⭐ Experiment 1: SQL Queries
Q1. What is SQL?
Answer:
SQL (Structured Query Language) is a standard language used to store, manipulate, and retrieve data in relational databases. It allows users to create and manage database structures and perform data operations like insertion, deletion, and updates.

Q2. What are DDL and DML commands?
Answer:
DDL (Data Definition Language): Defines the structure of a database.
Examples: CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE.
DML (Data Manipulation Language): Used to manipulate data within tables.
Examples: INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT.

Q3. What are SQL objects?
Answer:
SQL objects are database entities such as:
Table: Stores data in rows and columns.
View: A virtual table based on query results.
Index: Improves the speed of data retrieval.
Sequence: Generates unique numeric values.
Synonym: Alternative name for another database object.
Constraints: Rules applied to maintain data integrity (e.g., PRIMARY KEY, UNIQUE, CHECK).

Q4. What is the purpose of constraints in SQL?
Answer:
Constraints ensure data accuracy and consistency. They prevent invalid data entry, such as duplicate roll numbers or negative values in marks.

⭐ Experiment 2: SQL Queries – Joins, Sub-Queries, and Views

Q1. What is a Join in SQL?
Answer:
A Join combines rows from two or more tables based on a related column between them.
Types of Joins:
INNER JOIN: Returns only matching rows.
LEFT JOIN: Returns all rows from the left table and matching ones from the right.
RIGHT JOIN: Returns all rows from the right table and matching ones from the left.
FULL JOIN: Returns rows when there is a match in one of the tables.

Q2. What is a Sub-Query?
Answer:
A Sub-Query is a query inside another query. It is used to get intermediate results that are used by the main query.
Example:
SELECT * FROM Employee WHERE Salary > (SELECT AVG(Salary) FROM Employee);

Q3. What is a View?
Answer:
A View is a virtual table created using the SELECT statement. It simplifies complex queries and provides a layer of security by restricting direct access to base tables.

⭐ Experiment 3: MongoDB Queries
Q1. What is MongoDB?
Answer:
MongoDB is a NoSQL database that stores data in the form of documents using JSON-like format called BSON. It is schema-less and provides flexibility in storing unstructured data.
Q2. What are CRUD operations in MongoDB?
Answer:
CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and Delete:
Create: insertOne() or insertMany()
Read: find()
Update: updateOne() or updateMany()
Delete: deleteOne() or deleteMany()
Q3. What is the SAVE method in MongoDB?
Answer:
The save() method is used to insert a new document or update an existing one if it already exists based on the _id field.

⭐ Experiment 4: Unnamed PL/SQL Block

Q1. What is PL/SQL?
Answer:
PL/SQL (Procedural Language/SQL) is Oracle’s procedural extension of SQL that supports loops, conditions, and exceptions. It allows combining SQL with programming logic.

Q2. What is an Unnamed Block in PL/SQL?
Answer:
An unnamed block is an anonymous PL/SQL block without a name, often used for quick execution. It consists of:
DECLARE – Declare variables.
BEGIN – Write executable statements.
EXCEPTION – Handle runtime errors.
END;

Q3. What is Exception Handling in PL/SQL?
Answer:
Exception handling is used to manage runtime errors.
Types:
Predefined Exceptions: e.g., NO_DATA_FOUND, ZERO_DIVIDE.
User-defined Exceptions: Created by the user to handle specific conditions.

⭐ Experiment 5: Exporting and Importing Data
Q1. What is Data Exporting?
Answer:
Exporting means transferring data from a database table to an external file format like CSV, XLSX, or TXT for sharing or backup purposes.

Q2. What is Data Importing?
Answer:
Importing means reading data from external files into a database table. It helps in bulk data entry or migration.

Q3. Why are exporting and importing important?
Answer:
They are important for:
Backup and recovery.
Data migration between systems.
Integration with other applications.

⭐ Experiment 6: Cursors (All Types)
Q1. What is a Cursor in PL/SQL?
Answer:
A cursor is a pointer used to fetch and manipulate rows returned by a SQL query one at a time.

Q2. What are the types of Cursors?
Answer:
Implicit Cursor: Automatically created for SQL statements like INSERT or SELECT.
Explicit Cursor: Created by the programmer using DECLARE CURSOR.
Cursor FOR Loop: Automatically opens, fetches, and closes the cursor.
Parameterized Cursor: Accepts parameters to make queries dynamic.

Q3. Why are cursors used?
Answer:
Cursors are used to process multiple rows returned by a query individually, especially when complex row-by-row operations are needed.

⭐ Experiment 7: Database Connectivity
Q1. What is Database Connectivity?
Answer:
Database connectivity refers to the process of connecting a front-end application (like Java, Python, or PHP) with a back-end database (like MySQL or Oracle) to perform operations such as adding, editing, deleting, and viewing records.

Q2. What is JDBC/ODBC?
Answer:
JDBC (Java Database Connectivity): Used to connect Java programs with databases.
ODBC (Open Database Connectivity): Standard API for connecting any application with any database.

Q3. What are common database navigation operations?
Answer:
Add record (INSERT)
Delete record (DELETE)
Edit record (UPDATE)
Display record (SELECT)

Q4. Why is connectivity important?
Answer:
It allows integration between application and data, enabling real-time updates, transactions, and interactive systems.
